README.asciidoc, before:

// SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Retroshare Team <contact@retroshare.cc>
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

= RetroShare

RetroShare is a decentralized, private, secure, cross-platform, communication
toolkit.
RetroShare provides file sharing, chat, messages, forums, channels and more.

.Build Status
|===============================================================================
|GNU/Linux, Android (via Gitlab CI) | image:https://gitlab.com/RetroShare/RetroShare/badges/master/pipeline.svg[link="https://gitlab.com/RetroShare/RetroShare/-/commits/master",title="pipeline status"]
|Windows (via AppVeyor) | image:https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/RetroShare/RetroShare?svg=true[link="https://ci.appveyor.com/project/RetroShare58622/retroshare"]
|macOS, (via Travis CI) | image:https://app.travis-ci.com/RetroShare/RetroShare.svg?branch=master[link="https://app.travis-ci.com/github/RetroShare/RetroShare"]
|===============================================================================


== Compilation

Short of comprehensive and updated documentation on how to build RetroShare
(for the many supported platforms it runs on), scripts and recipes are provided
in the aim of creating packages for the supported platforms (and more)
in the `build_scripts` directory of this repository.

Those packaging receipts together with the continuous integration files
`.travis.yml` and `appveyor.yml` are a good source of knowledge on how to
compile RetroShare on different platforms.


== Using RetroShare on a headless computer with web UI

WARNING: This section is outdated need to be adapted to the new web UI

The web UI needs to be enabled as a parameter option to the retroshare-service:

[source,bash]
--------
./retroshare-nogui --webinterface 9090 --docroot /usr/share/retroshare/webui/
--------

The web UI is only accessible on localhost:9090. It is advised to keep it that way so that your RS
cannot be controlled using an untrusted connection.

To access your web UI from a distance, just open a SSH tunnel to it:

[source,bash]
--------
distant_machine:~/ >  ssh rs_host -L 9090:localhost:9090 -N
--------

"rs_host" is the machine running `retroshare-nogui`. Then on the distant machine, access your web UI on 


      http://localhost:9090

(This can also be done from the RetroShare GUI.)

Commit message:

Added istructions on how to get the submodules

README.asciidoc, after:

// SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Retroshare Team <contact@retroshare.cc>
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

= RetroShare

RetroShare is a decentralized, private, secure, cross-platform, communication
toolkit.
RetroShare provides file sharing, chat, messages, forums, channels and more.

.Build Status
|===============================================================================
|GNU/Linux, Android (via Gitlab CI) | image:https://gitlab.com/RetroShare/RetroShare/badges/master/pipeline.svg[link="https://gitlab.com/RetroShare/RetroShare/-/commits/master",title="pipeline status"]
|Windows (via AppVeyor) | image:https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/RetroShare/RetroShare?svg=true[link="https://ci.appveyor.com/project/RetroShare58622/retroshare"]
|macOS, (via Travis CI) | image:https://app.travis-ci.com/RetroShare/RetroShare.svg?branch=master[link="https://app.travis-ci.com/github/RetroShare/RetroShare"]
|===============================================================================

== Get the source

Clone this repository, enter the directory and then get the submodules with the
following command

[source,bash]
--------
git submodule update --init libbitdht/ libretroshare/ openpgpsdk/
--------


== Compilation

Short of comprehensive and updated documentation on how to build RetroShare
(for the many supported platforms it runs on), scripts and recipes are provided
in the aim of creating packages for the supported platforms (and more)
in the `build_scripts` directory of this repository.

Those packaging receipts together with the continuous integration files
`.travis.yml` and `appveyor.yml` are a good source of knowledge on how to
compile RetroShare on different platforms.


== Using RetroShare on a headless computer with web UI

WARNING: This section is outdated need to be adapted to the new web UI

The web UI needs to be enabled as a parameter option to the retroshare-service:

[source,bash]
--------
./retroshare-nogui --webinterface 9090 --docroot /usr/share/retroshare/webui/
--------

The web UI is only accessible on localhost:9090. It is advised to keep it that way so that your RS
cannot be controlled using an untrusted connection.

To access your web UI from a distance, just open a SSH tunnel to it:

[source,bash]
--------
distant_machine:~/ >  ssh rs_host -L 9090:localhost:9090 -N
--------

"rs_host" is the machine running `retroshare-nogui`. Then on the distant machine, access your web UI on 


      http://localhost:9090

(This can also be done from the RetroShare GUI.)
